---
layout: post
title:  "whoAmI"
date:   2016-07-08
categories: my journey
---
Who am I? I'm Carolina. I am Brazilian and I have a degree in Computer Science.
I always loved math and challenges, but sometimes I've felt different for
following a predominantly male area. During college, I often was the
only woman in the room. Sometimes I've studied with another women but we never
reached 10% of the total students.

During my journey I had some job opportunities. I taught basic informatics to
people who had never had contact with a computer. I've worked in a laboratory
of educational media. I've worked in a digital agency and after that, in a
software development company. In none of these jobs I was a developer. I was
always the person who understood a lot of the business, the person that knew
the logic of the systems that were being developed (and in many cases I was the
person designing this solutions), the person who created test scenarios or even
the person who managed the project. But unfortunately, I was never the
developer.

Thinking about it, I realized that it had no sense. I ***love programming***. In
college, I remember that many times I felt really really happy when I solved problems using the
programming language that I used to like: C. But I hadn't tried to understand
why I've have never worked as a developer. Until I reflected.

I was always encouraged to think that women weren't born to program. As I'm a
woman, I can't do it!!!! Yes, the environment is hostile and this
hostility intervenes in our self confidence. Even though I was a good student in the college, 
I never believed that I was able to apply for a job as a developer.

About two years ago I started working at ThoughtWorks. On the first day of work
I got super impressed because several women who were setting near me were
developers. I started talking to different people and got a lot of good
influences.

Most of the time, people believed in me more than myself, and it was in those
moments that, in fact, I opened my eyes and saw that I was doing something that
I didn't think I was capable for. I was truly working as a software developer. And
every day I know more and more that this is what I want to do every day in my life.

The biggest goal of this blog is to bring texts and tutorials on what I have
been studying and show my tech journey. What I'm doing to deconstruct every day
what I mistakenly thought that wasn't capable. It takes time, especially
because I feel that I have too many knowledge gaps.

Besides of that, I want to create content that helps other people to also grow
their technical journeys and encourage them that the practice of software
development is for everyone, you just want to do it! It's a road that requires
a lot of effort, but it has been a very funny road and I hope I can make it
easier and more funny for you that are reading too!
